---
ai: true
language: "en"
title: "IVBAR revolutionizes healthcare analytics with Safespring's secure and flexible infrastructure"
date: "2018-05-16"
draft: false
tags: ["Svenska"]
showthedate: true
card: "safespring_card_9.jpg"
eventbild: "safespring_background_9.jpg"
socialmediabild: "safespring_social_9.jpg"
section: "blog"
author: "Fredric Wallsten"
aliases:
  - /blogg/Ivbar
  - /blogg/ivbar
  - /blogg/2018/2018-05-ivbar/
---

IVBAR is a startup that was recently named one of Europe’s top 20 companies in the healthtech sector. The software they offer helps healthcare organizations perform advanced operational analytics, reimbursement models, and international benchmarking in healthcare. Safespring’s background in security and flexibility enables Ivbar to easily develop its service on top of Safespring’s infrastructure.

With Ivbar’s software, care outcomes are analyzed as expressed in the patient-reported quality of life (rather than the healthcare system’s internal sequence of billable events). Ivbar supports organizations in quality improvement around this and also creates new forms of payment models in healthcare that lead to the “right” incentives—namely, rewarding the creation of good outcomes for patients.

{{< quote "Dag Lindbo, CTO at IVBAR" >}}
“We want to build our entire technology solution on containers (Docker) and orchestration (Kubernetes). This allows us to scale our business without the development team having to grow.”
{{< /quote >}}

Ivbar’s previous IT setup was very static. Lead times were long to order a new server, configure networks, and for any contact with support. There were major limitations in the types of servers available, and restrictions on administrative privileges.

“Before Safespring, we couldn’t build a modern DevOps pipeline. Nor could we give our data scientists access to the underlying datasets.” – Dag Lindbo, CTO at IVBAR.

Safespring’s use of OpenStack as a platform provides the freedom to design systems that address Ivbar’s technical challenges and let them take responsibility for the entire lifecycle. With Safespring, Ivbar also has a solid security foundation, a prerequisite for operating in our sector.

“In talking with Safespring, our experts feel they’re speaking to fellow experts who are also sincere and responsive. We feel that we help each other. This is a completely unique experience compared to other IT partners.” – Dag Lindbo, CTO at IVBAR.

OpenStack is a large and complex ecosystem where there is more than one way to solve most problems. Safespring is happy to validate key design decisions and thereby reduce technical risk.

{{< quote "Dag Lindbo, CTO at IVBAR" >}}
“But perhaps most important of all: Safespring delivers a product that gives us power and freedom over our IT infrastructure; consequently, it’s up to our ingenuity and ability to solve our customers’ problems—we’re not dependent on an IT partner that limits our creativity.”
{{< /quote >}}
