---
ai: true
language: "en"
title: "Digitally accessing data archived for 500 years will become easier and more secure"
date: "2019-03-12T13:46:22+01:00"
draft: false
tags: ["Svenska"]
showthedate: true
card: "safespring_card_3.jpg"
eventbild: "safespring_background_3.jpg"
socialmediabild: "safespring_social_3.jpg"
section: "blog"
author: "Fredric Wallsten"
aliases:
  - /blogg/piql
  - /blogg/2019/2019-03-piql/
---
## Piql and Safespring in a new partnership

Piql, known for archiving data safely offline for centuries, can now offer its customers a new standard for high-quality online storage and access to offline files through Safespring’s cloud service.

> “This collaboration makes it easy for our customers to comply with local laws and regulations while keeping up with the ongoing digitization of public institutions and businesses” — Fredric Wallsten, CEO of Safespring.

Rune Bjerkestrand, CEO of Piql, says this is a natural partnership as both companies focus on secure data storage.

> “This service extends our secure storage into an online environment, in addition to our offline system, providing high-speed access to all clients’ archived data,” — Rune Bjerkestrand, CEO of Piql.

The new service integrates seamlessly into Piql’s workflow. Customers can enjoy immediate access to digital files or archival packages by enabling the “Piql online storage” option. All files are automatically uploaded to a secure data center in Norway. The files become available through the same user interface as Piql’s offline files.

> “The service is optimized for customers who need easy access and store large numbers of files at low cost, such as e-archives, public agencies, or web applications for publishing data. There are no up-front or transfer fees; customers only pay for the data stored in the service,” says Rune.

Both Piql and Safespring are committed to providing secure, high-quality data storage services, and this partnership strengthens those offerings.

### About Piql

Piql offers offline data storage on microfilm designed to last 500 years. The data is stored in archives on Svalbard.
Their ambition is to reshape digital preservation with a holistic approach.

The solution is designed to maintain the integrity of the data while ensuring it can be reproduced in the future. Piql secures your valuable data and keeps it accessible regardless of future technological developments.